# Event Proposal

## Info

Names: [Daniel Wheeler][wheeler], [Surya Kalidindi][kalidindi], [Tony Fast][fast] and [David Brough][brough]

[wheeler]: http://wd15.github.io/about.html

[kalidindi]: http://mined.gatech.edu/the-ga-tech-mined-research-group/ga-tech-mined-research-group-surya-kalidindi

[fast]: http://mined.gatech.edu/the-ga-tech-mined-research-group/ga-tech-mined-research-group-tony-fast

[brough]: http://mined.gatech.edu/the-ga-tech-mined-research-group/ga-tech-mined-research-group-david-brough

Title: Introduction to Materials Informatics with Open Source Tools.

Sponsoring Division: ?

Suggested Format: Short Course

Suggested Duration: 1 day

Suggested Instructors: as above

Workshop Sponsoring Technical Division and Committee: ?

Targeted Audience: ?

Is this course connected to a specific symposium or activity that is
occurring in conjunction with MS&T 2015: ?

## Couse Overview

Microstructure informatics is an emerging suite of signal processing
techniques, advance statistical tools and data science methods
tailored specifically to the study of microstructure in materials
science.  The purpose of the materials informatics workshop is to
provide practical knowledge in using these techniques to improve the
efficiency and efficacy of multiscale simulations and experimental
characterization involving materials microstructure, see [1], [2], [3]
and [4]. The workshop will focus on introducing participants to a set
of open source computational tools in Python that addresses spatial
statistics for materials informatics.

The techniques covered in the workshop are useful to any computational
materials scientist and are especially relevant to many of the
challenges associated with the Materials Genome Initiative. The
workshop will allow participants to significantly augment their
existing workflow involving micro-scale and continuum simulations or
experimental characterization to enable more efficient processing of
large sets of parameters and material configurations.

[1]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.10.008

[2]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.01.007

[3]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11837-011-0057-7

[4]: http://www.pymks.org

## Topical Outline

## Who should attend

## Biography

See links.

[Daniel Wheeler][wheeler], [Surya Kalidindi][kalidindi],
[Tony Fast][fast] and [David Brough][brough]

## Marketing

Please list any groups of organizations that TMS might approach as a
means of highlighting your course (e.g. associations, companies,
journals/publications), and include appropriate contact information if
available.

 * Materials Genome Initiative groups

Please list any social media groups (e.g. LinkedIn, etc.) that TMS
should explore as a means of advertising this event to an audience
that we may not otherwise have contact with. ?

Please list any industry databases that TMS should explore as a means
of advertising this event.
